I want to welcome you to session 114,
Application Packaging
and Document Binding.
And this morning,
at the end of my session 111,
I was talking about how, you know,
some of the things that you
need to do to create a great
user experience on Mac OS X.
And one of the things I mentioned was,
you know, bundling your application.
So we want to talk here in this session
about how to package your application,
how to bundle it, what the difference is
between those two terms.
We want to talk about document binding,
what are the rules for
Mac OS X and how documents are
associated with applications.
And this is something you need
to pay close attention to.
It's something that's been
discussed a lot online with
some of the discussion lists.
And we would like to clarify a
little bit what needs to be done
from the developer's point of view.
So to talk to you through this material,
I'd like to explain this material to you.
I'd like to introduce
Christopher Linn from the
User Experience Engineering Team at
Apple.
Good afternoon, almost evening.
It'll be evening by the time we're done.
[Transcript missing]
And let me see if I can get this to work.
Okay.
So first half of my talk
is all about packaging,
how you deliver your
applications on Mac OS X.
And I'd like to talk a little bit about
what the traditional delivery mechanism
is or structure of an application.
And then look at this new choice,
sometimes usually called a package,
sometimes referred to as a bundle.
I'll try to explain the difference
between those two terms.
And then really go into some amount of
detail of how an application package
is structured and look at some of
the important internals such as the
property list and how you express
things like what types of documents your
application can open and what types of
URL schemes your application can handle.
Then in the second half,
I'd like to go into document
binding in which we talk about what
exactly does document binding mean,
how does it work on Mac OS X,
and how does it work on Mac OS X.
And therefore, what guidelines should you
follow when saving new documents
from your applications.
Finally,
I want to give a quick overview of
what the capability of this new API is
called Launch Services that essentially
provides the binding service on X.
And look at how you can make
sure that your application,
once it's installed, is actually also in
the bindings database.
Okay.
So let's start out with something simple.
What is an application?
Well, it's a database.
Of course, it's a big hunk of code,
a big program you've been working on,
slaving over for several years probably,
fine tuning it and adding features.
But in order for it to work,
there's a whole bunch of other stuff
that needs to go along with it.
Localized strings, controls,
and view layouts, icons and images,
and help files, plug-ins,
and I could go on and on.
And all these things are really
necessary for your program to run.
So you want to make sure
it all stays together.
I call all this extra stuff
the goo with your application.
The goo needs to be there or
else your application won't work.
The way that applications have
been traditionally packaged
has been with us since 1984.
The original Mac OS introduced
resource files,
and in fact, everything was in the
resource fork back then,
the code and all of the extra goo.
And it presented this great single-icon
view of an application to your users.
It was very clear to run an application,
you double-click that icon.
It had some other advantages in
that non-programmers could get in
with localization tools and create a
localized version of your application.
And this format is still fully supported
for Carbon applications on Mac OS X.
But there are some limitations.
Not everything can appropriately
be placed in the resource
fork or a resource file.
And so as applications have gotten
more complex over the years,
You see that sometimes you
look in a folder and you'll
see a lot of other icons there.
And some of this stuff might be
necessary for your application
to function properly.
Some of the plug-ins, for instance.
And in addition,
it's just more complex for the user
because the user has to find the
right icon in order to double click
and open your application correctly.
Another problem with this
model is that when you localize
a single file application,
it only has a single localization in it.
So you may have to make an
English version of your app and then a
French and a Japanese version and so on,
a separate version with your
binary duplicated for each one.
And so it's just some extra work
and more complexity for installs.
And in addition,
once the user installs your app,
it can only run in that one localization.
So what we want to get back to is
the simplicity that looks like this.
One icon, it's an application,
the user knows what to do,
you double click it.
And so what we're introducing
is application packages.
A package is simply a directory
that to the user looks like a file.
What goes inside there
is completely up to us.
Apple defines a certain structure.
You can extend that
structure by or work with it.
It's fairly flexible as
to what goes inside there.
And it can grow over time
without impacting the user.
The user will always see
just this nice simple view.
All the goo is hidden inside.
There's some other great
benefits of application packages.
You can have multiple binaries inside.
So, for instance,
you might want to set up your package
so that it has one binary for Mac OS X,
but it has a classic binary in it
that can actually run when the package
gets double-clicked on Mac OS 9,
and we'll talk about that.
But I think the most exciting thing
about application packages is how they
can contain multiple localizations,
as many as you want.
And this means that you can have a
single install of your application,
and it works great on a multi-user
system where one user logs
in and prefers one language,
double-clicks your application,
that's the localization they get,
the one they prefer.
A different user comes in,
speaks a different primary language,
they double-click the same package,
and they get the localization
that they prefer,
the language that they prefer.
Finally, although I'm not going to
talk about it much today,
packages are not just for applications.
It's actually possible to define
Document Packages,
and that's something that
Interface Builder uses.
But mostly I'm going to be looking
at application packages today.
Interchangeably,
you might hear me using the
term bundle and package.
And I'd like to try and
clarify once and for all,
maybe, what the difference is.
And the reason I use the terms
interchangeably during this talk
is that you can see right in the
middle is an application package.
It's both a bundle and a package.
On the left,
we have something that's just a bundle,
and the example I have is a framework.
A bundle is a directory that contains
code and some associated resources,
or GU.
But it's just a directory, okay?
If it's just a plain
bundle like a framework,
you can actually click
on it and look inside it.
You see the contents.
And the reason we didn't seal it up
as a package is that there's actually
some headers in there that we want
you to be able to get at easily.
On the other side is something
I call a Nib package.
It's actually usually
referred to as a Nib file,
so you may not even realize it,
but a Nib that is produced by Interface
Builder is actually a package.
And a package means one thing.
It's a directory that is
presented to the user as a file.
So it looks like a file to the user.
In the middle, again,
you have applications.
And as we go into the
application structure,
I'll try to point out what things about
it are specific to bundles and what
things about it are specific to packages.
So this is a quick overview of what
the structure of a package is inside.
At the top level,
this is a sample application on
the developer CD called Sketch.
And basically inside,
at the top level of the package,
there's actually just one thing,
another folder called Contents.
So Apple chose to take all of its
structure and put it in one place so
that it doesn't conflict with anything
you might want to do up at the top level.
And really everything interesting
about the structure is inside
of the Contents folder.
The first thing is the property list.
This is something that all bundles have,
a property list.
It's a file called Info.plist.
And it tells the system,
it's in a format that
the system understands,
and it tells us all about your bundle.
And we're going to get into
that in a fair amount of detail.
So for right now, let me just go on.
Next is another directory
called the Resources Directory.
And this is where all of the goo goes,
all of your resources,
whether they're resource files
or strings files or images,
icons,
anything goes in the Resources Directory.
And there's two parts to it.
Up at the top level of
the resources directory,
if you will, go all of your resource
files that are global,
that don't need to be localized.
And then for each localization that
you want to add to your package,
you have a subfolder which is named
after the language for that localization.
And the language names are defined
by the Core Foundation bundle APIs.
And so you can have as
many of these as you want:
English, French, Japanese, and so on.
And inside here is where
you put resource files,
localized strings,
anything that needs to be
localized goes down in here.
And there's one file in
particular I want to call out,
and that is a file called
Info.plist.strings.
It turns out that some things in the
property list up at the top level there,
or in the contents folder,
are actually user visible.
Things like the user visible name
of your application and the kind
strings associated with your document.
Those things need to be localized.
So there's a part of your
property list that lives down
in each localization folder,
and that's in a file
called Info.plist.strings.
And a strings file,
I'll show you a little bit later,
but it's basically just a set of key
value pairs that we can do a look up on
to find an actual value for a string.
Okay, back up to the contents folder.
The next thing is this PKJ info file.
And if you look at it in the finder,
you'll see it's always 4K.
Well, in fact,
that's the minimum block size.
If you look at it in detail,
it's only 8 bytes large.
This is--the contents of
it actually are not public,
but if you look at it,
it's obvious that it's the type
and creator of your package.
Since directories don't actually have
types and creators associated with them
in the catalog info of the file system,
this is where we cache it.
And it's basically an optimization.
You don't need to worry about this
file except to know why it's there.
Its presence helps us know that this is,
in fact, a package and the contents
may change in the future.
as we deem necessary.
And finally,
we get to where your executable lives.
On Mac OS X,
when an application package is launched,
the system always looks in a
directory called Mac OS with no space,
even though marketing would
rather it have a space.
It's not actually user visible,
so we just simplified it.
And in here is where you put your binary.
And in fact, the name of the binary
can be anything you want.
It never is user visible.
However, in order for us to find it,
it needs to be specified
correctly in your property list.
So that is a simplified view of
an application package structure.
And I'd like to touch on one other
topic related to the structure,
and that is about packages on Mac OS 9.
So I'm going to strip away all
that other stuff about property
lists and resource directories,
because Mac OS 9 doesn't have
any of that infrastructure.
But we did want to give a minimal
way for Mac OS 9 to recognize
and launch packaged applications.
Obviously, it's not going to be able to
launch the Mac OS X version,
because you can't get it the resources
down in the resources directory.
But what you can do is create another
directory to hold your classic binary.
And this is actually a single file
traditional Mac OS 9 application.
It's going to have all of your
resources in there localized
to one particular localization.
And the way you get Mac OS 9 to
launch it is you create an alias.
And actually,
the alias can be called anything,
because we just look for an alias,
any kind of alias,
inside the application package.
And you make that alias
resolve to your binary.
And the Mac OS 9 finder will be
able to launch a package like this.
So this is one way,
if you really want to get on the
package train and take advantage
of all the advantages for X,
you can still have a single package
which can be run on Mac OS 9.
And now I'd like to switch to the
demo machine here and just show
you a little bit about packages.
So Sketch here is kind of the
sample app I was going through.
And it's a Cocoa application
that does some simple drawing.
Close it and quit.
And we kind of struggled with whether or
not we wanted to do this in the finder,
but it turns out that it's really
handy to be able to have a backdoor
to get into a package when you
really want to inspect the contents.
And so what we did was we put
it down in the contextual menu.
So if you Control-click on a package,
there's actually a command that says,
"Show package contents."
This is so you know it's
there in case you need it.
Here we have the inside of the package.
It's a window that's actually
rooted at the package.
It doesn't go up to the
rest of the hierarchy.
But it is a regular Finder window.
You can change, say, to List View.
And let's take a look inside.
Here is the property list,
the Mac OS directory
with the binary in it,
the package info file.
And let's see.
In Resources,
we have a whole bunch of stuff actually.
We've got TIFF files and icons.
And then here we have some localizations,
English, Japanese,
and even Klingon there.
It's one of the advantages of Unicode.
Let's see, and then in here we have nib
files that get localized,
and here of course is the
Info.plist strings file which
contains some of the localized
information from the property list.
So that is inside a
package in the finder.
And now let's switch back
to the slides and move on.
So with all this talk about packages,
you might be wondering how the system
actually knows the difference between
a regular directory and a package.
And there's actually three things that
can turn a directory into a package,
and that was kind of necessary
for historical reasons,
I guess,
for some existing packages we had.
The first one is that we actually
defined an HFS catalog info bit
that was unused for directories,
and we call it the package bit.
If you need to know, it's bit 13.
It corresponds actually to
the bundle bit for files,
but for directories it was unused.
I'm told that in the original Mac OS,
Planning back in 1984,
they wanted to do something
like this and it only took us,
what, 16 years?
17 years?
So there's a bit,
and when you set that bit,
magically the directory
gets presented as a package.
Now that's actually not quite enough
information because since directories
don't have types and creators,
we don't really know anything about that.
So it's always good to have
a package info file there.
Whether or not you use the package of it.
But it turns out if your directory
has some sort of valid extension and a
package info file in the contents folder,
that's enough to tell us
that it's actually a package.
And one other way is,
and this is documents as packages,
if the directory has an extension on it
and that extension is claimed by some
application as a packaged document,
then we'll know from our bindings
database that this directory needs
to be presented as a package.
But typically, application packages,
you want to have the package info file
so that we know that it's an application.
So the rest of the time on packages,
I want to talk about the property
list because this is really how
you communicate to your application
what your application-- or to the
system what your application can do.
The property list tells us
things like what the name of your
executable is so we can launch you,
what version it is,
what types of documents you can open.
And something we've added is what
kind of URL schemes you can handle.
So if you are an FTP client,
you can handle FTP URLs or a
browser or even if you have
your own private schemes.
You can specify them here and that
allows the system to route a URL with
your scheme to your application.
Again, the property list is something
that all bundles have.
It's-- in fact,
the Core Foundation Bundle API is
what you use to manipulate bundles.
And all of the keys that
I'm going to go over soon,
I'm going to go over in a minute.
start with CFBundle because this
is all defined by core foundation.
In general,
the property list has a lot of parallels
with the single file application model.
Reverse resource, BNDLs, FRF,
open resources and kind resources.
All this information is
now in the property list,
as well as additional things
that we're adding over time.
The property list itself is
actually just a text file.
It's an XML file,
which means that Core Foundation can
easily read it in as a property list.
It's implemented as a dictionary,
which means it's easy to extend.
We just add new keys,
and when you ask for a value of a key,
Core Foundation dereferences or looks
up the key and gives you back the value.
We've defined a number of standard keys,
and these are the things that the
system looks for when scanning
over your application package.
As I said before,
some of the values should be localized.
I'm going to keep saying this because
I just want to keep reminding you.
If you don't localize, say,
your kind strings in the right place,
then they won't be ready in the finder
for users to see your kind strings.
Now, what if you're actually not
quite ready for packages,
but you really want to
have a property list?
And this is important because, in fact,
if you really want to get nice, big,
Aqua icons associated
with your documents,
you need a property list.
Or if you really want to make sure that
you're able to claim certain extensions,
file extensions,
then you need a property list.
So we've made it possible for
single file applications to
also have a property list.
In fact, if you do this,
then it's one way we know that you
are actually a native application
and not a classic application.
What you do is you create
a PL/ST resource with ID 0,
add it to your application,
and simply paste the contents of your
XML property list into the resource.
The only thing that has to
change is that in the places
where you're specifying an icon,
instead of specifying a
file name for the icon,
you actually are
specifying a resource ID.
So it's just a number.
Then we look for an ICNS resource
with that ID in your application.
Okay.
Now, let's keep moving here.
These are not all of the keys that
you might see in a property list,
but these are the essential ones,
and I wanted to zip through each one.
CFBundle Names.
It's a name for your bundle.
It ends up being a user visible name,
so this is something that
you want to make sure you
localize in your strings file.
Where it's visible right now is, say,
in the menu bar.
The application menu is actually that
text comes out of your property list.
Something that's not user visible
is the CFBundle identifier.
It's designed to be a unique identifier,
so we use the form of a, like a,
in the style of a Java package name,
kind of a reversed domain name.
And this gives us a name,
nice name spacing and allows
the system to count on using
this as a unique identifier
for your application or bundle.
In addition to the package info file,
we also want the type and creator
to be in the property list,
so the package type for applications,
it's always going to be APPL.
And then of course the signature
is the same as the creator,
and that's your four-character OS type
that still should be registered with
Apple so that we're assured of some
level of uniqueness for creator types.
or creator signatures, I should say.
The version,
this is important for helping the
system differentiate between different
versions of your application.
That sometimes comes up in
Launch Binding or Document Binding.
and the icon file,
this tells us what icon to actually
associate with your application package
in the finder or in the file dialogs.
And then finally the executable name,
which is the file down
in the Mac OS directory.
Now there's two others that
are a little more complicated,
and so I'll have to
drill down into these.
The document types and the URL types.
These are how you associate
documents on the system and
URL schemes with your application.
It lets us know that your
application can handle various
types of documents and URLs.
And those keys are actually arrays,
and each value in the array
is a nested dictionary again,
so it's all very extensible.
So for each document
type that you can handle,
we have a number of keys.
And I'm not going to go
through the URL keys,
because they're very complicated.
They're very similar.
And I want to really focus
on document binding today.
The first one is an
abstract name for the type.
And this ends up being user visible.
This is actually the kind string.
So you want to make sure that this key
gets localized in your strings file.
Moving on, the icon file.
This tells us what icon-- we go and
look for this resource in your-- for
this file in your resources directory
and associate the icon in there with
documents of this type in the finder.
The next one is a new concept, the role.
We're introducing an understanding
of roles in Mac OS X.
And this is a way to give us a
little more information about
what your application can do
with documents of this type.
And the only two we have defined
right now are editor and viewer.
So full-blown Acrobat
is an editor of PDFs,
but Acrobat Reader is a viewer of PDFs.
And that's about as clear a definition
as you're going to get of the
difference between editor and viewer.
It's not always so clear,
but we think it's a pretty useful
distinction in a lot of cases.
This actually is a required key.
You've got to tell us.
You're one or the other.
And it comes into play when
we're doing document binding.
And then, for each abstract type,
you can actually associate
a number of OS types,
that is type signatures,
as well as extensions with
a given abstract type.
In the case of OS types,
the reason you might want to have
several instead of just one is
suppose you rev your application
and change the file format,
so you want to change the
OS type for your document.
Well, those are really kind of the same
abstract type for the most up-to-date
version of your application,
you can handle all of those types.
You would list them here in the array.
And similarly with extensions,
you might have extensions
that have changed over time,
or you might have different versions
of really the same extensions,
such as HTML and HTM.
You want to treat those as really
the same abstract file type.
So you can list them all in
this array of type extensions.
And let's see,
I guess I have a demo here.
What do I need to do?
Right, so here is the property list,
and I was just going to
open it up in BBEdit.
BBEdit does some nice coloring.
So, as you can see, it's an XML file.
Here are the tags, like here,
this says that this particular
XML file is a dictionary,
like I said.
And there's a number of keys,
some of which I've talked about.
All of the CFBundle types,
there's an array of types,
and each item is a dictionary,
like I said.
If we look down, here's some of the other
keys I talked about.
The executable name is Sketch.
The icon is Sketch.
The icon file is actually Draw To App.
And obviously,
this is not the best user interface
for dealing with property lists.
And so, if I actually go out here
and double-click this,
it will open in a little tool,
a developer tool called
Property List Editor.
It gives you a much nicer interface
for creating property lists.
You can see,
you can progressively disclose
the property list to see all the
keys we've been talking about,
see all the document types.
This is an array.
There's several types that
are supported by Sketch.
So, this is a nice tool for actually
creating a property list.
But in addition to that,
both Project Builder and
Code Warrior provide assistance
in building your property list.
Down inside the resources directory,
again, is where the
Localized part of the property list is,
and if you look in here,
you can get by all the disclaimers.
What's in the strings
file is the same keys,
for instance, the bundle name,
and then the localized value
of it is sketch in English.
Okay, end of demo.
So that is not all the details
about application packages,
but the message we really want you
to hear is that they're a new option
that has great advantages over the
single file application structure.
It gives a nice, simple,
Presentation to the user
with a lot going on inside.
Because it contains
multiple localizations,
your application is actually globalized.
You take a single image of
your application and it can run
in many different languages.
Not all at the same time,
but it changes as needed.
And because of the way the definition
of a package is set up in a bundle,
it's very extensible for the future.
The key to getting a great user
experience for your application package
on X is getting your property list right.
And the best way to do that is go out
and read the documentation we have.
There's various tech
notes on this subject.
And also look at the sample code.
The sample apps try to do a good
job of having their property lists
just the way we want them to be.
And that brings us to the second half,
Document Binding.
So, it's great.
The system knows all about
your application now.
If you have a property list,
we look at that.
If you have a P-list resource,
Or if you're a single file
application and you have a BNDL and
F-Ref resources and Kind resources,
we still look at that.
And we have all this information
about what your application can do.
Document binding is
What makes this work?
It's the service that associates on the
fly documents in the file system with
the applications that can handle them.
It's what makes double
click work in the finder.
And as a general term,
I'm using it to refer to the new
capability of binding URL schemes
to applications as well.
So,
In order to understand what's changing,
I want to look at how things used to be.
In 1984,
The Mac was introduced and we had
totally free-form file names and we
introduced type and creator in order to
free the user from having to worry about
Metadata and how documents get
associated with applications.
And that worked great because
there wasn't a whole lot
of file exchange going on.
Every Macintosh was kind of an
island and the file exchange that was
happening tended to be between Macs.
If we fast forward to today,
The picture is a lot more complicated.
The world is a lot more interconnected
and it's not so simple anymore.
So for instance, we've got files that
come onto the system,
say from outside sources,
through an email program, for instance,
and all we know about the file
maybe is its file name and its bits.
So...
In that case,
we can look at the file name and say,
"Hmm, well, it has an extension,
and that doesn't do us much
good on the Mac." So the email
client is the gatekeeper,
and it's responsible for figuring
out what is that extension mapped to.
Because if that email program
doesn't set the extension,
or I'm sorry,
doesn't set the type and creator,
then it's not going to be
very much use to a Mac user.
And so the gatekeeper takes
care of that transition.
Similarly, files going out,
if Letter to Mom doesn't
have an extension on it,
it might be going to a Windows user.
And the file's not going to be
much help to a Windows user who
doesn't know how to open it,
because it doesn't have
an extension on it.
So the gatekeeper, again,
is responsible for doing the transition.
It might say,
"Are you sure you want to do this?
Do you want to add an extension
to this file?" In fact,
that happens sometimes,
but not very reliably.
Another problem with the gatekeeper
theory is that you can't always tell
when you're crossing the boundary.
Maybe you're putting a file onto a disk.
It might be a file server
or a removable disk.
It looks like an HFS disk.
Maybe it's an AFP server.
You don't want to force
extensions in all cases there.
But the fact is if the file doesn't
have an extension and the disk
is accessed by a Windows user
or another operating system,
it probably isn't going to need an
extension in order to be understood.
But you can't tell that it's
actually gone through a gateway.
And just to add one
more thing to the mix,
Macintosh is working as web
servers or hosting a lot of files
that have extensions on them.
And so right on the system you've
got files with extensions on them,
and yet the system still knows
very little about extensions.
So the gatekeeper theory kind of breaks
down in this very interconnected world,
and we're left with a lot of file
exchange going on and not always
a good user experience because
document binding doesn't always work.
So what's the answer?
Well,
if this was an episode of Star Trek:
Voyager, I would say we could just
assimilate Microsoft.
and we could banish extensions from
the universe and make sure that
everyone was using types and creators.
I don't know what the Linux people
would have to say about that.
That would be nice, huh?
The problem is we're the good guys,
right?
That violates the prime directive.
We can't do that.
So the next thing that happens,
whenever you're doing battle
against the Borg anyway,
is you remodulate your shields.
There's two problems with that.
First of all,
it never works for very long.
The boards see right through that, right?
The other problem is,
it has nothing at all to
do with document binding.
So we can't do that.
However, it occurred to me that what
we are doing is something that
Captain Janeway does all the time.
She takes an alien technology
and uses it to her advantage.
And that's what we're doing by
recognizing extensions on Mac OS X.
Extensions are out there.
They're on Mac systems.
They're coming in all the time.
And the fact that we don't recognize them
at all is just getting in users' way,
in the way of users.
And so I picked this word
"recognize" very carefully because...
We're not trying to get
rid of anything else.
We're just saying that extensions
are an interesting piece of metadata.
It tells us something about a file.
And we want to provide the best
possible user experience for our users.
A lot of users are interacting
with extensions by necessity.
And the way to help them is to
recognize them as a part of the system.
So what comes from that decision?
The goal of document binding remains,
and always will remain,
that we want to always launch the right
application when opening a document.
The right application, of course,
is what the user wants.
So we have to do some mind reading.
If we could read the user's mind,
that would be great.
Document binding would just work.
Our goal is to approximate mind
reading as much as possible.
And in order to do that,
we want to recognize all
available type information.
Type, creator, extension,
whatever might become
available in the future.
In addition, we want to give the user
a little bit more control,
actually,
of how binding works so that they
don't just have one choice for binding,
that they can do some
overriding if they want.
Now, the user experience we have in
Mac OS X is not completely done.
Extensions are fairly
new to the system and...
We're on our way to something that we
think is a great user experience and
I'm just mentioning this because
I don't want you to think that what we
have in Mac OS X we think is perfect.
It's not perfect.
But we do think it's an improvement,
especially for users that need
to work with extensions a lot.
So first of all, what is an extension?
Well,
we've tried to give a fairly constrained
definition for an extension because
we're adding it onto a system that
already has a bunch of files on it.
Some of those files
might have extensions.
Other files might have things
that look like extensions,
but are just,
were just put there by the user
and aren't really extensions.
Something like, well, I don't know,
but by constraining the
definition of an extension,
we are reducing the number of false
positives on finding an extension.
So, the extension is all the
characters following the last dot.
The character set is A through Z, 0 to 9,
dollar sign, percent, underscore,
and tilde.
Notice there's no spaces
allowed in extensions.
And there's one more restriction.
If, although digits are allowed,
numerics are allowed,
if the extension is all numbers,
then it's not seen as a valid extension,
so it's ignored as an
extension by the system.
So, what are some examples of this?
Well, first two.
There are similar document names.
They both have a surfpaint extension,
but with slightly
different capitalization.
Those are actually recognized
as the same extension.
Extensions are always
matched case and sensitive.
So those are the exact same extension.
Listview.c, of course.
And the last one,
an mp3 file that has a digit in it,
but it also has letters,
so it's a valid extension.
The invalid ones, surfpaint1.0.
That's just an extension.
So, it's not a valid extension.
Surfpaint1.0.v2 has a space in it.
We disqualify that.
And if somebody likes to put dates
at the end of their file name,
and it ends in .01,
that's not a valid extension either.
So, those things are right out.
We don't recognize that
as extension metadata.
Okay.
So given all of that,
how do we actually bind
documents in Mac OS X?
The first thing is that users can,
for specific documents,
: So, in the info window of the finder,
there's actually a panel
that allows the user to say,
"For this one document,
I always want to open it in this
application over here." And that
is the first rule in the overriding
rule that if the user has set that,
that's the application
they're going to get.
Now, if that's not set,
which would generally be the exception,
because that's an advanced feature,
not something where obviously we don't
want to require users to do that,
the next thing we look at is the creator.
We look at the creator and we say,
do we have an application with
this creator on the system?
And if we have more than one,
we have to do some best matching,
which I'll get into.
But the important thing is,
if the creator's there
and we can match it,
then that's how we're
going to bind the document.
I want to point out,
this is how it works on Mac OS 9.
This covers 99% of what
happens on Mac OS 9.
So right here,
you're getting behavior that
is pretty much in line with
what happens on Mac OS 9.
The next thing we're going
to look at is the extension,
if there is one.
If there's an extension,
we want to consider it first because
there's some important cases when
the extension actually has more
meaning in it than the OS type.
And a great example is text files.
They're all T-E-X-T on the Mac,
and that's why you see text
files with extensions on them,
so that the system can
tell the difference.
Now actually, the Mac OS 9 system can't
tell the difference very well,
but on 10, we can look and say, "Oh,
it's an HTML file.
It doesn't have a creator
or the creator's missing,
but we're going to launch it
in Internet Explorer." Or,
"It's a .c file.
We're going to launch
it in Code Warrior."
And then we look at the OS type.
If we don't find an extension
match or there is no extension,
then we look at the type and we
try to find an application that
can open that type of document.
In all these cases,
there might be some ties.
So let's look at how we break ties.
For creator binding, well,
Let's say we find more than
one app with the same creator.
In general, it's going to be a different
version of the same app.
And we break ties in that
case by always launching a
native app over a classic app.
If there are two native apps,
for example,
then we'll look at the version numbers
in the bundle or the verse resource.
And then finally, if that fails,
then we'll try to break the tie
by the latest modification date.
And if that fails,
then we'll try to break the tie
by the latest modification date.
have the same app and it
doesn't really matter.
If we have to drop down to looking at
the type in order to achieve the binding,
then we look again at a user preference.
This is an advanced feature,
so most users won't be doing this,
but it hits the spot when you need it.
And that is, you can say,
the user can say that HTML files,
I always want to open them in Explorer.
For any particular type,
the user can specify their preference.
If that's not set,
then we have some other rules,
and this is where the roles come in.
If we have an editor and
a viewer to choose from,
then we'll pick the editor.
And by the way,
unless classic apps indicate
otherwise through a property list,
all classic apps are viewers,
considered viewers.
And so this will also give
an edge to native apps.
But finally, if all things are equal,
then we'll still pick a
native app over a classic app.
So that is, in a nutshell,
the binding rules.
There are some nooks and
crannies that I didn't get into,
but that's the essential
expression of what happens.
So, given all of this,
what are the guidelines for
creating new documents on Mac OS X?
Well,
You want to maintain
binding for everybody,
ideally.
And so this actually came up on
the discussion list recently,
AppleHIDEV,
and a pretty good way to put it is,
save all the metadata that you have.
So if you're an editor
for a type of document,
and the user is saving that document,
it totally makes sense.
You're the creator for that document.
You should set the type
and creator for the file,
and if your users might possibly
be interested in opening
that file on another OS,
then the best policy is to also
have an extension for that document.
You might not want to force that,
but a number of large
applications already do,
and not just Microsoft applications,
I might add.
It's something that our
users need in some cases.
And so having all the metadata there,
It enables us to do the best
possible binding and for binding
to work on all operating systems.
However,
there are cases when you're actually
manufacturing or deriving metadata.
And that might not actually make sense
to save metadata that you have to derive.
So for instance,
if a file is incoming over
the network as an attachment,
You might just have an extension.
And you can ask Internet Config for,
you know,
you can do the gatekeeper thing and say,
what's the type and creator for this?
Well, the fact is,
what you're doing when you ask
that question is Internet Config is
consulting the Launch Binding,
or the Document Bindings database,
and it's giving you back
the same information,
essentially,
that you get when the document
is double-clicked in the
finder with just an extension.
So by, in other words,
by saving the type and
creator at that moment,
you're kind of freezing the binding
for that file at that moment,
when in fact all of that happens
dynamically now in the finder.
If there is just an extension,
your file will bind just fine.
So there's no need to
derive new metadata.
Other interesting things that you
should do when you create a new file.
Users like to see their
files show up immediately.
They like to see it in the finder.
They know that their data is
all nice and safe on disk.
And the Finder does
not pull periodically.
That's a big performance
problem if you do that.
And so on the chance that your
file is visible in the Finder,
or should be visible in the Finder,
after you save a new file,
or after you remove a file,
for that matter, if you do,
you can call this new
function on Mac OS X,
fnnotify, passing in an fsref to the
directory that the file is in.
And that will wake up the Finder,
and maybe some other clients
for the notifications,
and the Finder will redraw
its window and the file will
appear and the user will see it,
even with the window in the background.
By the way,
the save panels in both Carbon and
Cocoa will do this for you.
So you don't have to do it
if you've gone through a save
panel to create a new file.
Wildcard document types.
Well,
Used to be in a single file
application you could claim four
stars and get wildcard binding
for drag and drop purposes.
And you can still do that
in your property list.
If you claim four stars,
you're saying that you
can open any file at all.
Any file can be dropped
on your application.
We've added one new one which is
claiming an extension of star,
just one star.
And what that does is it's
a little bit different.
It says you can open any
file that has an extension.
And that's somewhat useful because
you're saying that you open any file
that has an extension and that you're
going to look at that extension
to figure out what the file is.
That's why it needs to have one.
Both of those can appear
in your property list.
And finally, the last thing I really want
to go through in this talk is
how to open a document and the
Launch Services API in general.
This is a new API available
only on Mac OS X.
It is the engine that
does document binding.
It opens documents, it opens URLs,
and it also provides some API for
getting all sorts of information.
So if you have a file or a
folder or an application you
have some questions about,
then,
Use Launch Services to
get that information.
And let me go through
real quick how it works.
As I said,
it's only available on Mac OS X.
It maintains the bindings database.
It does also save relevant information
back to the desktop database,
so that if your user
does boot back into 9.
Anything that got installed while
10 was running is in the desktop
database to the fidelity that
the desktop database can handle.
And finally, oh, however, I should say,
don't rely on the desktop database
for getting binding to work on X.
In fact, there is one more step
in document binding,
which is a last-ditch
effort to bind things.
If all else fails,
we will go back and consult the
desktop database to see if we can find
some application to open a document.
But it's really the last resort.
And if you want to work well on Mac OS X,
you want to make sure that
your application goes into the
Launch Services bindings database.
Launch Services is used
extensively by the Finder.
It's essentially code that used to be
in the Finder that did all the bindings.
What we've done is we've made
an API public so that you
too can be like the Finder.
If you need to open things,
you want things to open in the same exact
application that would happen if the user
double-clicked something in the Finder,
use Launch Services.
So what can you do with it?
Well, you can open documents and URLs.
There's two ways.
The easy way, which is,
takes an FSRF or a URL,
and what that does is,
the easy way is essentially
the same as double-clicking.
There's no options.
You just say, take this thing and do
the right thing with it.
And it's the same as what
the user is asking for when
an item gets double-clicked.
If it's a URL, we look at the scheme,
we find out what the best application
is to open that particular kind of URL,
we launch the application,
and send it the URL Apple event.
If you need more control than that,
then there's API available that
allows you to do things such as launch
more than one document at a time.
I have an array of documents.
I want to open them all.
And by the way, I also want to open them
in a specific application,
not the default application,
but I know the application I want,
so I'm going to specify that.
And there's some other options,
such as passing Apple event parameters
to the application when it gets launched,
some pass-through params.
All of these things, by the way,
are in LaunchServices.h on Mac OS X,
and there's some extensive header
documentation in there that
will help you figure out exactly
what each part of the API does.
There's also a tech note on this,
which we'll give a URL to at the end.
The rest of the Launch Services API is
all informational.
It allows you to answer questions
that you have about various things.
So, for instance,
lscopy item info for ref or for URL.
This allows you to pass in options,
essentially asking questions, saying,
is this item a package?
Is it a volume?
Is it an application?
You know, I have an FSRef.
I need to know something about it.
If it is an application,
is it classic or a native app?
Does it have an extension
and what is the extension?
Don't rely on just looking for
the last dot in a file name.
As I said, there are rules about
what's a valid extension.
Launch Services defines
those rules by providing the
API to get at the extension.
Getting bindings information.
If you want to find out what
the binding is for a document
without actually opening it,
or for a URL, you can call this
Get Application for Item or for URL.
And it will actually return to you an
FSRef or a CFURL to the application that
is the default binding for that item.
If you don't have an item
but you have some metadata,
a creator, a type, or an extension,
or maybe all three or some combination,
you can pass in whatever you have
to get application for info and it
will return to you the best possible,
the best match for binding that metadata.
And finally, this is kind of an oddball,
but if you have something else
to identify an application,
such as an application name
or just a creator or a bundle
identifier like com.apple.sketch,
this API will go and find,
search the bindings database
for that application.
And that might be something,
especially with bundle identifier,
might be something you need to do.
Drag and drop.
Again, the Finder uses this in order to
figure out drag and drop acceptance,
so you can too.
You've got two items.
You want to know if one can
be dropped on the other.
You call lscanref accept
item or can URL accept URL if
you're dragging around a URL.
Kind strings.
You need to know the kind
string for a document.
This API returns for a document
or even for a URL the kind string
pulled out of the bound application.
So it does the default binding and
it goes and looks in the package,
looks in the property list,
and finds the localized kind
string for the document,
returns it to you as a CFString.
[Transcript missing]
All right, how do you make sure that
you're in the bindings database?
It's kind of embarrassing if you
install your application and then
your user can't get it to launch
by double-clicking a document.
Well,
Today, the Finder is solely responsible
for updating the Bindings database.
And it does some things
automatically for you.
Whenever the user logs in,
The Finder looks in
some well-known places,
such as the main applications
folder for the system,
the users application
folder if there is one,
some other places I think
like scripting additions.
And it notices if anything has been
added or removed in those places.
And it scans the subfolders as well,
not just the flat folders.
And it makes sure that all the
applications in those locations
are in the bindings database.
Whenever an application
is launched by the user,
say, right in the finder,
you double-click on an application or
you double-click on one of its documents.
The Finder will make sure that that
application is in the bindings database.
Obviously, if you double-click on
one of the documents,
it must already be in there.
But if you launch the application,
it will get added to
the bindings database.
But you also need a way to install
your application and make sure
it gets added to the database.
And the way you do that today is you
need to tell the finder about it.
And the way you do that is with
an existing Apple event protocol
called the Sync Apple Event,
or KAE Sync.
This constant,
I think it's in finder-registry.h.
And what you do is you create
one of these sync Apple events.
You make an alias to your application,
not to the directory it's in,
but the application itself,
the package or the binary.
You add that alias to the
sync Apple event and you
send it off to the finder.
And that wakes up the finder.
The finder adds the application
to the bindings database.
So if you're installing, well,
what are your choices?
First thing you could do is just
rely on packages for a nice drag
and drop install experience.
You have a CD,
you put your application on it,
the user pops in your CD,
drags the application package over,
all the goo is hidden inside the package.
They drag it over,
they double click your document, sorry,
double click your application and boom,
it gets added to the bindings database.
But certainly there are going to be
cases when you need to do something
a little more formal than that.
So if you're installing multiple
applications or something,
run through your installer,
but don't force a restart or a logout.
You might want to make the user log out,
they'll log back in,
the finder will scan and
find your application.
But there's a much nicer way to do
it and that is with the sync event.
So copy over the application,
send the sync event, everything goes into
the bindings database.
If you have more than one application,
obviously send one event
for each application.
So in summary, for document binding,
our goal remains, and always will remain,
To read the user's mind,
to make document binding
work intuitively.
In order to achieve that,
we've added a new type of metadata to
our bindings information that we consider
the extension so that all available type
information is recognized by the system.
And this should result in ultimately a
better binding experience for the user.
We've also added the ability for
the user to exert some control
for advanced users over specific
binding of specific documents.
And in general,
the best practice for you in
creating new documents when you're
the editor of the application,
when you are an editor application,
is save all the metadata you have.
Type in creator.
If your user wants to
work with extensions,
save an extension also.
That will ensure that your document
can be correctly bound everywhere.
And finally,
the Launch Services API is really
your access to all of this.
It gives you all sorts of
information about bindings,
and it's exactly what the Finder does.
And so it's a great way
to mimic the Finder.
So there's some relevant sessions here.
Localization is on Thursday.
Designing icons is on Friday.
Core Foundation and the bundle APIs for
accessing bundle contents on Friday.
A couple of project builder sessions,
unfortunately, were yesterday and today.
And finally, if you want to learn more
about shield remodulation,
be sure to catch Star Trek:
Voyager's final episode
right here tonight at 8:30.